.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: bug
assignees: ''

---

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**To Reproduce**
Steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Go to '...'
2. Run '....'
3. See error

**Expected behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

## Runner Version and Platform
Version of your runner?

OS of the machine running the runner? OSX/Windows/Linux/...

## What's not working?
Please include error messages and screenshots.

## Job Log Output
If applicable, include the relevant part of the job / step log output here.  All sensitive information should already be masked out, but please double-check before pasting here.

## Runner and Worker's Diagnostic Logs
If applicable, add relevant diagnostic log information.  Logs are located in the runner's `_diag` folder. The runner logs are prefixed with `Runner_` and the worker logs are prefixed with `Worker_`. Each job run correlates to a worker log.  All sensitive information should already be masked out, but please double-check before pasting here.

Commit message:

Direct people to Feedback or Support forums
Many people open bug reports or feature requests in the `actions/runner`
repository that are more generally about GitHub Actions.  Often changes
in GitHub Actions are cross-cutting across multiple teams or feature
areas, so it's best if we direct people to the more general areas
(Actions Community Support or GitHub Feedback) so that we can get the
most eyes on the problem and give the quickest response.

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: 🛑 Report a bug in the runner application
about: If you have issues with GitHub Actions, please follow the "support for GitHub Actions" link, below.
title: ''
labels: bug
assignees: ''

---

<!--
👋 You're opening a bug report against the GitHub Actions **runner application**.

🛑 Please stop if you're not certain that the bug you're seeing is in the runner application - if you have general problems with actions, workflows, or runners, please see the [GitHub Community Support Forum](https://github.community/c/code-to-cloud/52) which is actively monitored.  Using the forum ensures that we route your problem to the correct team.  😃
-->

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**To Reproduce**
Steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Go to '...'
2. Run '....'
3. See error

**Expected behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

## Runner Version and Platform
Version of your runner?

OS of the machine running the runner? OSX/Windows/Linux/...

## What's not working?
Please include error messages and screenshots.

## Job Log Output
If applicable, include the relevant part of the job / step log output here.  All sensitive information should already be masked out, but please double-check before pasting here.

## Runner and Worker's Diagnostic Logs
If applicable, add relevant diagnostic log information.  Logs are located in the runner's `_diag` folder. The runner logs are prefixed with `Runner_` and the worker logs are prefixed with `Worker_`. Each job run correlates to a worker log.  All sensitive information should already be masked out, but please double-check before pasting here.
