docs/start/envlinux.md, before:



# ![Linux](../res/linux_med.png) Linux System Prerequisites

## Supported Distributions and Versions

x64
  - Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8+
  - CentOS 8+
  - Oracle Linux 8+
  - Fedora 29+
  - Debian 10+
  - Ubuntu 20.04+
  - Linux Mint 20+
  - openSUSE 15.2+
  - SUSE Enterprise Linux (SLES) 15 SP2+

## Install .Net Core 3.x Linux Dependencies

The `./config.sh` will check .Net Core 3.x dependencies during runner configuration.  
You might see something like this which indicate a dependency's missing.
```bash
./config.sh
    libunwind.so.8 => not found
    libunwind-x86_64.so.8 => not found
Dependencies is missing for Dotnet Core 6.0
Execute ./bin/installdependencies.sh to install any missing Dotnet Core 6.0 dependencies.
```
You can easily correct the problem by executing `./bin/installdependencies.sh`.  
The `installdependencies.sh` script should install all required dependencies on all supported Linux versions  
> Note: The `installdependencies.sh` script will try to use the default package management mechanism on your Linux flavor (ex. `yum`/`apt-get`/`apt`).

### Full dependencies list

Debian based OS (Debian, Ubuntu, Linux Mint)

- liblttng-ust1 or liblttng-ust0
- libkrb5-3
- zlib1g
- libssl1.1, libssl1.0.2 or libssl1.0.0
- libicu63, libicu60, libicu57 or libicu55

Fedora based OS (Fedora, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS, Oracle Linux 7)

- lttng-ust
- openssl-libs
- krb5-libs
- zlib
- libicu

SUSE based OS (OpenSUSE, SUSE Enterprise)

- lttng-ust
- libopenssl1_1
- krb5
- zlib
- libicu60_2

## [More .Net Core Prerequisites Information](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/linux-prerequisites?tabs=netcore2x)

Commit message:

Redirect supported OS doc section to the public docs (#3396)
* redirect supported OS doc to public docs

* Anchor to appropriate OS heading

Co-authored-by: Patrick Ellis <319655+pje@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Patrick Ellis <319655+pje@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/start/envlinux.md, after:



# ![Linux](../res/linux_med.png) Linux System Prerequisites

## Supported Distributions and Versions

Please see "[Supported architectures and operating systems for self-hosted runners](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/managing-self-hosted-runners/about-self-hosted-runners#linux)."

## Install .Net Core 3.x Linux Dependencies

The `./config.sh` will check .Net Core 3.x dependencies during runner configuration.  
You might see something like this which indicate a dependency's missing.
```bash
./config.sh
    libunwind.so.8 => not found
    libunwind-x86_64.so.8 => not found
Dependencies is missing for Dotnet Core 6.0
Execute ./bin/installdependencies.sh to install any missing Dotnet Core 6.0 dependencies.
```
You can easily correct the problem by executing `./bin/installdependencies.sh`.  
The `installdependencies.sh` script should install all required dependencies on all supported Linux versions  
> Note: The `installdependencies.sh` script will try to use the default package management mechanism on your Linux flavor (ex. `yum`/`apt-get`/`apt`).

### Full dependencies list

Debian based OS (Debian, Ubuntu, Linux Mint)

- liblttng-ust1 or liblttng-ust0
- libkrb5-3
- zlib1g
- libssl1.1, libssl1.0.2 or libssl1.0.0
- libicu63, libicu60, libicu57 or libicu55

Fedora based OS (Fedora, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS, Oracle Linux 7)

- lttng-ust
- openssl-libs
- krb5-libs
- zlib
- libicu

SUSE based OS (OpenSUSE, SUSE Enterprise)

- lttng-ust
- libopenssl1_1
- krb5
- zlib
- libicu60_2

## [More .Net Core Prerequisites Information](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/linux-prerequisites?tabs=netcore2x)
